# Run Inference on the Desktop

## Inference Engine
The inference engine is a component of the platform that allows users to run trained machine learning models on their target devices or environments.Once a model has been trained on Neuton’s platform, the inference engine takes care of executing the model's predictions using new input data. It processes the input, applies the learned model, and outputs the results, all while ensuring that the model operates efficiently even on devices with limited computational resources.

### Key features of Neuton.ai's inference engine 
 - TinyML Optimization: It enables deployment of ultra-small models, making it suitable for edge devices with limited computing power, like microcontrollers and IoT devices.
 - Efficiency: It allows for fast execution with low power consumption, which is ideal for real-time or resource-constrained applications.
 - Cross-Platform Support: It can be used with different hardware platforms (e.g., Cortex M0, M4, M33) depending on your target device.
This engine is optimized for use with the lightweight models generated by Neuton.ai, offering an easy way to integrate AI into edge applications.

## Managing CSV file reading settings

When a CSV file is used as a dataset, you can specify the delimiter character, the name of the target column and the name of the session column if they differ from the default values \`,\` and \`target\`, \`session\` respectively. This can be done by specifying additional parameters when calling \``inference`\` and \``metrics`\` command.

Use "-d <delimiter>" or "--delimiter <delimiter>" to specify delimiter character by keywords:

* comma - \`,\`
* semicolon - \`;\`
* tab - \`\\t\`
* caret - \`^\`
* vbar - \`\|\`

```
.\artifacts\inference_runner>neuton_inference_runner_linux inference test.csv -d tab
```

Use "-t <target name>" or "--target <target name>" to specify the target column name of the provided dataset.

```
.\artifacts\inference_runner>neuton_inference_runner_linux inference test.csv -t label
```

Use "-sn <session name>" or "--session <session name>" to specify the session column name of the provided dataset.

```
.\artifacts\inference_runner>neuton_inference_runner_linux inference test.csv -sn testee
```